And it's time to put everything we've learned into a real world project.
And today's project is going to take some time because although it's relatively simple, there's a lot
of code, many functions, and it's essential that you have an idea for what the order that you need
to do.
Everything is ahead of time.
Today you are going to create a recipe manager.
Basically, it's a program by which a user can recreate and delete recipes from a database.
Before you start, you need to create a folder directory like this in the base folder of your computer.
It is a folder called Recipes, which contains four subfolders and each of them contains two text files
inside the files.
You can write whatever you want.
It's not important what it says in each in each text file for this exercise.
Or if you prefer, you can download and unzip the file that we've attached to this lecture and place
it in the root directory.
If you don't feel like building out that structure yourself, once you have done that, here comes your
task.
Your code will first welcome the user, tell them the path to the directory where our recipes folder
is located.
Tell them how many recipes there are inside the folder and then ask them to choose one of these options
that we have over here.
The first option will ask them Which category do you choose?
Meats, salads, desserts, whatever categories you want.
And once the user chooses a category, it will ask them Which recipe do you want to read?
And then it will show the content of that recipe.
In option number two, it will also ask the user to choose a category, but then it will ask the user
to write the name and content of a new recipe, and it will create that file in the correct place.
So basically option two is getting the user to create a new recipe in a specific category.
Option three will ask for the name of the category the user wants to create and will generate a brand
new folder, a new category with that name.
Option four will do the same as option one, but instead of reading the recipe, it will delete it.
So deleting recipes Option five will ask Which category do you want to delete?
So if you want the user to be able to delete a category and option six will end the execution of the
code, just end the program.
Now, this program has some very important things to consider.
First, every time the user successfully performs any of their choices, the program will ask them to
press some letter to go back to the beginning.
So the code will repeat over and over until the user chooses Option six to actually exit.
This implies that the whole menu should be inside a while loop that repeats over and over again until
the condition that the user's choice is six is not met.
Second, it would be great if every time the user returns to the initial menu, the console clears the
screen so that the previous executions do not accumulate.
So it's cleaner.
Remember that you have system to reset the screen and start displaying from scratch.
Third, although I have taught you many methods to manage files for this exercise, you will need some
that you have not seen yet but are included in the objects we have been working on.
So sometimes you will have to search among the methods that path brings.
For example, reading the documentation and learning how to implement them.
I know it would be much easier if we could just teach you every single thing you need to know.
But remember, it's important to know as a programmer to be able to learn and discover and find and
fix things yourself.
This is how it's going to work in the real world.
So this is a great time to practice this skill for you will use many functions, as many as you think.
Necessary functions help to compartmentalize the code and make it more dynamic, maintainable and repeatable.
Some tasks in this project, such as asking the user which category to choose, are repeated in two
or more menu items.
So having it as a function allows you to write it once and then invoke it from a different place.
Fifth.
Remember to start with a flow chart or a hand-drawn graph that allows you to easily visualize the the
decision tree, the path that your code needs to execute.
Without that, you'll get all tangled up faster than you think.
And last but not least, don't get frustrated if you don't get it done.
If you manage to do just one part or a couple of functions or you don't manage to do everything, it
is fine.
We are always learning and part of learning is just not knowing.
Our challenge will always be placed at the edge of our capabilities, taking us out of our comfort zone
so that our brains have to puzzle and figure out how to do something new.
Go ahead as far as you can get.
Give it all the twists and turns that you can.
And when you see that you finally can't just can't figure it out, that's when you ultimately will find
out your solution.
I'm that edge of just being able to quit, but don't quit when you see those solutions.
And maybe it will come.
When you watch our solution videos, you'll realize, Oh, I was so close.
Why didn't I think of that myself?
And by pushing through and trying yourself, that's when you're going to be able to fully comprehend
and memorize it for your future.
Work as a programmer.
I'm not going to keep you any longer, so put on some good music, grab something nice to drink, crack
those fingers and let's start programming.